The vast majority of those taking general chemistry classes will never utilize that chemistry knowledge. However, chemistry is an important part of a well-rounded education because it can cultivate a variety of skills that students need in order to become successful, independent adults. I empower students to think critically and creatively and to solve problems in the context of chemistry, mainly at the introductory level.
	
One of my goals as a chemistry professor is teaching students to analyze information critically. Learning something banal such as significant figures teaches students that all measurements are uncertain and that they should first consider the uncertainty of a measurement to understand its value. All educated members of our society should have a rudimentary understanding of uncertainty to participate in discussions about a range of important topics such as global warming, political polling, and forensic evidence. I will incorporate critical thinking into my classes  by having students analyze the assumptions and uncertainties associated with general formulas and other rules they are learning in class, as well as having discussions about current topics of interest.
	
Chemistry can involve a great deal of creativity. Using course material to create new ideas is the ultimate proof that a student has achieved mastery. In lieu of a written exam, I designed the midterm project for the course I taught in Spring 2013 with a creative aspect. Students were asked to design a dish based on the principles of gastronomy they had learned so far in the course. This assignment was enormously successful, and the students came up with very unique meal ideas based in science.
	
Similar to creative thinking is creative problem solving, another skill that I will teach students through chemistry class. It is not uncommon to face a problem without all the information necessary to solve that problem; however, students often flounder when given such questions in class. I will give students confidence in these situations by teaching them strategies that apply not only to chemistry problems but to all kinds of problems. One example that I have done with students is giving them all the information they need to solve a problem except the equation to plug the information into, such as solving for frequency given the wavelength and the speed of light. A clever student will arrange the information so the units will cancel. Although this approach certainly will not always produce a correct answer, in general, piecing together information is a good approach that is useful across the spectrum of topics. Another problem solving strategy is making approximations. An educated adult should be able to analyze a situation and approximate numbers, particularly to check to see if a number sounds reasonable. One problem that I have given students is having them solve for how many helium-filled balloons it would take to lift a human into the air. Students need to come up with reasonable assumptions for how much a human weighs and how big a balloon is. This not only teaches students about gas laws and gravity but also about how to get an approximate answer without knowing every detail of a situation.
